# Title

All python projects in Arcalot should standardize on the use of
[poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management and packaging.
This standard should be built into documentation and contribution guidelines,
included in any templates, and should be checked automatically by CI.

## Benefits

From @mfleader:

`requirements.txt` in no way defines how a python project can be built and
published as a package. From [PyPA](https://www.pypa.io/en/latest/) on python
project configuration, the `pyproject.toml` is equivalent to `requirements.txt
&& setup.py`. If we're requiring that plugins to be publishable, and `setup.py`
is deprecated, then we have to require `pyproject.toml`, and `requirements.txt`
is redundant.

One of the main issues is that `pip` cannot ingest a `pyproject.toml` to install
dependencies for local development. To maintain exactly one set of software
dependencies (instead of a `pyproject.toml` and a `requirements.txt`) for your
project, and to be able to publish that project, then you need a software tool
that can programmatically interact with a `pyproject.toml` (i.e. add and remove
software dependencies). If that software tool can also export the software
dependencies defined in a `pyproject.toml` as a `requirements.txt`, then that's
a bonus, so that other developers do not need to use the exact same software
dependency manager. There just aren't many options for python software
dependency management and/or python package publishing.

An example with `poetry`:

```bash
poetry export --without-hashes --format=requirements.txt > requirements.txt
```

Exporting the `pyproject.toml` to a `requirements.txt` also means we do not need
`poetry` in our python image build environment, but it is unclear how much that
matters.


## Drawbacks

This imposes more process and compliance requirements on contributors, forcing
the integration of `poetry` into their workflows.
